---
title: Welcome to my new home
date: '2018-06-15T21:30:00.001+10:00'
author: "-"
tags: 
- Blogging
modified_time: '2018-06-15T21:30:24.338+10:00'
---
My first foray into blogging was 8 years ago, in 2010, when I was
[learning C# and .Net](https://learningcsharpnet.blogspot.com/) for the
first time.  At the time I decided to blog about what I was learning as
a way to help make things stick. Not only was I learning a new language
and platform, but, as a result of my own personal [\"Hit
Refresh\"](https://news.microsoft.com/hitrefresh/) moment, I was
learning a new discipline as I changed gears in my career from IT
operations to software engineering.

That blog experience lasted for a year before I ran out of steam for a
bit. I stopped blogging due to a mix of shifting personal priorities, a
(un)healthy dose of [imposter
syndrome](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/ImAPhonyAreYou.aspx), and a
progression in the complexity of the stuff I was learning. Part of it,
too, was that I was getting opportunities at work to exercise and grow
my software engineering skills on real projects, so my initial reason
for blogging wasn't such a need anymore.

Fast forward 2 years and I had somehow I managed to talk my way into a
job at Microsoft, which meant relocating my family to Redmond. The five
years since have been an amazing ride.  I've worked with some great
people and learned a lot about [my
craft](http://manifesto.softwarecraftsmanship.org/). We had a great
experience living the USA for nearly 5 years and got to see a good chunk
of the country.

At the start of this year we moved back to Australia for personal
reasons, and I started working for WiseTech Global, a Sydney company
developing software for the global logistics industry. I've been
learning a bunch of platforms and frameworks that I hadn't used before,
and that got my blogging juices flowing again.

So, here I am, back in the saddle as it were, writing up stuff that's on
my mind, that I don't want to forget, or that I think is cool and want
to share with others.  I can't promise it'll be super entertaining or
regular, but I'm back to give it ago.  Let's see what happens...
